@nocolor
===
第六組  W11
===
標題: Collaborative Writing Approach to Wiki
原文(摘要):

1.The most important characteristic of wikis is that they provide support for the collaborative pro-duction of shared knowledge, documents, and study materials by means of reading, writing, group reflection and interaction.

2.Collaborative writing requires technical skills associated with formatting, editing, use of fonts, color, input of multimedia elements (text, graphics, images, au-dio and video) onto wiki pages, hyper linking, etc.

3.In addition, collaborative writing involves ac-tive participation of the project members, shared editing, reading and group writing strategies, revisions, peer-review, and group evaluations of contributions (Judd, Kennedy, & Cropper, 2010; Kim, Hong, Bonk, & Lim, 2009; Meishar-Tal & Gorsky, 2010).

4.Hence, the development of wiki-based collaborative writing must differ from other approaches to software production in a number of aspects. Approaches that use conventional software development, such as the waterfall model (Pressman, 2000), or extensions of these approaches to Web-based learning (Horton & Lynch, 1999), to address the whole software process are not flexible enough, time-consuming, and too complicated, to be applied to collaborative writing projects.

5.Domain-specific approaches that are exclusively devoted to Web-based development (Balasubramaniam, Pries-Hje & Baskerville, 2003; Baskerville, 1999; Murugesan & Ginige, 2001) do not explicitly address the specific char-acteristics that are proper to wikis, such as collaboration, participation, active involvement in the gradual production of texts and documents.

6.Another important difference between conventional software production and wiki development is that wikis are mostly concerned with writing proc-esses rather than software and programming activities, even though some programming skills (mostly html coding) are needed.

7.In addition, a practical approach to collaborative writing needs to consider that wiki developers are not software experts.

8.Nevertheless, some elements of soft-ware production are still important and need to be considered for wiki development, such as user involvement, architecture design, quality insurance, and component integration.

9.Finally, evolu-tionary approaches such as rapid prototyping are more suitable to the collaborative character of wiki-based writing.

10.Rapid prototyping is powerful to quickly generate an initial text that can be improved, changed, and modified collaboratively through incremental revisions.

===
中文:

1.Wikis最重要的特徵是它們提供的合作生產的共享知識、文檔、以及閱、讀寫作，小組反思和互動的方式學習材料的支持。

2.協同寫作要求與格式相關的技術技能、編輯，使用的字體、顏色、多媒體元素（文字、圖形、圖像、音頻和視頻）到wiki頁面的超連結等輸入。

3.此外，協同寫作牽涉的專案成員，共享編輯，閱讀和寫作組策略，修改，評審，以及評估小組的貢獻(Judd, Kennedy, & Cropper, 2010; Kim, Hong, Bonk, & Lim, 2009; Meishar-Tal & Gorsky, 2010)。

4.因此，為基於wiki的協同寫作的發展必須不同於其他的方法來生產軟件在多個方面。使用傳統的軟件開發，如瀑布模型(Pressman, 2000)，或這些方法基於網絡的學習（Horton & Lynch, 1999）擴展的方法，以解決整個軟件過程是不夠靈活，費時，太複雜了，要應用到協同寫作項目。

5.特定領域的辦法，是專門致力於基於Web的開發(Balasubramaniam, Pries-Hje & Baskerville, 2003; Baskerville, 1999; Murugesan & Ginige, 2001)並沒有明確解決具體字符，acteristics是恰當的wikis，這樣的協同、參與，逐步生產文本和文件的積極參與。

6.傳統的軟件生產和的wiki發展的另一個重要區別是，wiki大多寫proc-esses，而不是軟件和編程活動，即使一些編程技巧(mostly html coding)是必要的。

7.此外，實用的方法，協同寫作需要考慮的wiki開發商不是軟件專家。

8.然而，軟件生產中的一些內容仍然是重要的，需要考慮的wiki開發，如用戶參與、架構設計、優質的保險和組件組成。

9.最後，evolu-tionary的方法，如快速原型更適合的基於wiki的書面合作字符。

10.快速成型的功能快速生成可以改善並增加修正協同修改的初始文本。


報告摘要
===

這是 2bg6 報告摘要內容

